Added GUIDE.md file (#207)
VirtusLab/akka-serialization-helper: docs/GUIDE.md

# Step-by-step guide for Akka Serialization Helper usage

> This document is a guide on how to use Akka Serialization Helper in your project. If you want to get a more general view of this toolbox, go to [README](../README.md).

Reviewer: Pls link this document back from README as well!

Akka Serialization Helper (ASH) consists of two major parts:
1. Circe Akka Serializer

> 2. Compiler Plugins

Reviewer: And also sbt plugin right?

Author: Hm, yes. I would check this sentence to:

Akka Serialization Helper (ASH) has two major parts that can be used:
1. Circe Akka Serializer
2. Compiler Plugins

Would it be ok? I just wanted to create a view of our toolbox from the user's perspective

Reviewer: Okay... let it be so

> You might use ASH in a few ways:

Reviewer: A very important remark indeed, that probably isn't clear from README

- Use both parts of the toolbox (best option - gives you all benefits from the toolbox and maximum runtime safety)
- Use Circe Akka Serializer but without enabling Compiler Plugins
- Use Compiler Plugins but not Circe Akka Serializer (if you need to stick to your current Serializer)

> Moreover, there are three Compiler Plugins (listed in [How to use](#hot-to-use) section). They are enabled by default, but you can choose to disable some of them if you want.<br><br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Moreover, there are three Compiler Plugins (listed in [How to use](#how-to-use) section). They are enabled by default, but you can choose to disable some of them if you want.<br><br>
```

Author: yeah, just fixed that :)

> To use ASH (hole or chosen part), you need to first add Akka Serialization Helper in the `project/plugins.sbt` file and enable it in `build.sbt` - this is the standard way of using the toolbox. Just follow short instructions from [install part of README](https://github.com/VirtusLab/akka-serialization-helper#install).<br><br>

Reviewer: _chosen_ doesn't sound well in such technical contexts, I see that the industry prefers _selected_

```suggestion
To use ASH (whole or a selected part), you need to first add Akka Serialization Helper in the `project/plugins.sbt` file and enable it in `build.sbt` - this is the standard way of using the toolbox. Just follow short instructions from [install part of README](https://github.com/VirtusLab/akka-serialization-helper#install).<br><br>
```

Alternatively &mdash; if you want to use only Circe Akka Serializer (without enabling compiler plugins) &mdash; you can add it as a standard library dependency (find new available versions under [releases](https://github.com/VirtusLab/akka-serialization-helper/releases)):
```sbt
libraryDependencies += "org.virtuslab.ash" %% "circe-akka-serializer" % "Version"
```

## How to use:
1. [Circe Akka Serializer](#circe-akka-serializer-guide)
2. [Annotations](#annotations-guide)
3. [Serializability Checker Compiler Plugin](#serializability-checker-compiler-plugin-guide)
4. [Codec Registration Checker Compiler Plugin](#codec-registration-checker-compiler-plugin-guide)
5. [Dump Persistence Schema Compiler Plugin](#dump-persistence-schema-compiler-plugin-guide)
6. [ashDumpPersistenceSchema sbt task](#ashdumppersistenceschema-sbt-task)

### Circe Akka Serializer Guide

> [CirceAkkaSerializer](../circe-akka-serializer/src/main/scala/org/virtuslab/ash/circe/CirceAkkaSerializer.scala) is the main abstract class that you have to extend to use as the Serializer in your application. Before extending it, read Javadoc comments available in following files:

Reviewer: Scaladoc! not Javadoc

Reviewer: Replace across the file

- [Register.scala](../circe-akka-serializer/src/main/scala/org/virtuslab/ash/circe/Register.scala) (helper object with `apply` method that needs to be used in order to register Codecs for serializable type)
- [Registration.scala](../circe-akka-serializer/src/main/scala/org/virtuslab/ash/circe/Registration.scala) (`Register.apply` method returns an instance of type Registration. Registration instances are later used as registered codecs)

Javadocs from these files and a quick lecture of [Akka serialization guide](https://doc.akka.io/docs/akka/current/serialization.html) should be enough to use Circe Akka Serializer properly. Apart from implementing the Circe Akka Serializer in scala code, remember to configure your Serializer in Akka-specific configuration file (.conf file). Two mandatory configurations are `akka.actor.serializers` and `akka.actor.serialization-bindings` (example below):
```editorconfig
akka {
  actor {
    serializers {
      circe-json = "org.example.ExampleSerializer"
    }
    serialization-bindings {
      "org.example.MySerializable" = circe-json
    }
  }
}
```

> where "org.example.ExampleSerializer" is the FQCN of your Serializer which extends CirceAkkaSerializer and "org.example.MySerializable" is the FQCN of your top-level serializable type (trait / abstract class) that is extended by Messages / Events / States which "org.example.ExampleSerializer" should serialize.

Reviewer: Nit: pls use backticks for code references:
```suggestion
where `org.example.ExampleSerializer` is the FQCN of your Serializer which extends `CirceAkkaSerializer` and `org.example.MySerializable` is the FQCN of your top-level serializable type (trait / abstract class) that is extended by Messages / Events / States which `org.example.ExampleSerializer` should serialize.
```

Quotes are very uncommon in this context

Also, there are few optional configurations that you can set if you want to change the default behavior of Circe Akka Serializer:

> - `org.virtuslab.ash.circe.verbose-debug-logging` = `on` / `off`\

Reviewer: Nit: you can probably just indent the next line instead of using `\`, this will be more readable in raw markdown (and the same in rendered HTML version)

Author: replaced `\` characters with blank lines - works fine

- `org.virtuslab.ash.circe.verbose-debug-logging` = `on` / `off`\
`on` enables debug logs for each serialization / deserialization -> prints info about what has been serialized/deserialized and how much time it took. Default is `off`.<br><br>
- `org.virtuslab.ash.circe.enable-missing-codecs-check` = `true` / `false`\
`true` enables additional check for possible missing codec registrations (more info about this problem in [README](../README.md)). This is in general checked by the [Codec Registration Checker Compiler Plugin](#codec-registration-checker-compiler-plugin-guide) during compilation, so the default is `false`. However, if you use only Circe Akka Serializer without compiler plugins - this check should be enabled. Be aware that enabling this check might have a slight negative impact on Serializer's performance.<br><br>
- `org.virtuslab.ash.circe.compression.algorithm` = `gzip` / `off`\

> `gzip` enables compression of payloads before serialization using the [Gzip](#https://www.gnu.org/software/gzip/) algorithm. Default is `off` (compression disabled). Choosing `gzip` altogether with setting proper `compress-larger-than` value (explained below) enables compression of payloads.<br><br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`gzip` enables compression of payloads before serialization using the [Gzip](https://www.gnu.org/software/gzip/) algorithm. Default is `off` (compression disabled). Choosing `gzip` altogether with setting proper `compress-larger-than` value (explained below) enables compression of payloads.<br><br>
```

Reviewer: I've run `remark --use=validate-links --use=lint-no-dead-urls --ignore-path=.gitignore --quiet --frail .`, see e.g. https://github.com/VirtusLab/git-machete/blob/master/ci/checks/ensure-links-correct.sh or https://github.com/VirtusLab/git-machete-intellij-plugin/blob/master/scripts/validate-markdown-links

Reviewer: (https://github.com/VirtusLab/akka-serialization-helper/issues/208)

# Step-by-step guide for Akka Serialization Helper usage
This document is a guide on how to use Akka Serialization Helper in your project. If you want to get a more general view of this toolbox, see [README](../README.md).

> Akka Serialization Helper (ASH) has two major parts that can be used:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Akka Serialization Helper (ASH) has two major parts:
```

1. Circe Akka Serializer
2. Compiler Plugins

You might use ASH in a few ways:

> - Use both parts of the toolbox (best option &mdash; gives you all benefits from the toolbox and maximum runtime safety)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use both parts of the toolbox (best option &mdash; gives you all benefits of the toolbox and maximum runtime safety)
```

- Use Circe Akka Serializer but without enabling Compiler Plugins
- Use Compiler Plugins but not Circe Akka Serializer (if you need to stick to your current Serializer)

> To use ASH (whole or a selected part), you need to first add Akka Serialization Helper in the `project/plugins.sbt` file and enable it in `build.sbt` &mdash; this is the standard way of using the toolbox. Just follow short instructions from [install part of README](https://github.com/VirtusLab/akka-serialization-helper#install).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use ASH (whole or a selected part), you need to first add Akka Serialization Helper in the `project/plugins.sbt` file and enable it in `build.sbt` &mdash; this is the standard way of using the toolbox. Just follow short instructions from the [installation part of README](https://github.com/VirtusLab/akka-serialization-helper#install).
```

> To use ASH (whole or a selected part), you need to first add Akka Serialization Helper in the `project/plugins.sbt` file and enable it in `build.sbt` &mdash; this is the standard way of using the toolbox. Just follow short instructions from [install part of README](https://github.com/VirtusLab/akka-serialization-helper#install).<br>

Reviewer: Nit: `<br>` is probably redundant

Alternatively &mdash; if you want to use only Circe Akka Serializer (without enabling compiler plugins) &mdash; you can add it as a standard library dependency (find new available versions under [releases](https://github.com/VirtusLab/akka-serialization-helper/releases)):
```sbt
libraryDependencies += "org.virtuslab.ash" %% "circe-akka-serializer" % "Version"
```

## How to use:
1. [Circe Akka Serializer](#circe-akka-serializer-guide)
2. [Annotations](#annotations-guide)
3. [Serializability Checker Compiler Plugin](#serializability-checker-compiler-plugin-guide)
4. [Codec Registration Checker Compiler Plugin](#codec-registration-checker-compiler-plugin-guide)
5. [Dump Persistence Schema Compiler Plugin](#dump-persistence-schema-compiler-plugin-guide)
6. [ashDumpPersistenceSchema sbt task](#ashdumppersistenceschema-sbt-task)

> ### Circe Akka Serializer Guide

Reviewer: I'd remove `Guide` from section titles

> [CirceAkkaSerializer](../circe-akka-serializer/src/main/scala/org/virtuslab/ash/circe/CirceAkkaSerializer.scala) is the main abstract class that you have to extend to use as the Serializer in your application. Before extending it, read Scaladoc comments available in following files:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[CirceAkkaSerializer](../circe-akka-serializer/src/main/scala/org/virtuslab/ash/circe/CirceAkkaSerializer.scala) is the main abstract class that you have to extend to use as the Serializer in your application. Before extending it, read Scaladoc comments available in the following files:
```

- [CirceAkkaSerializer.scala](../circe-akka-serializer/src/main/scala/org/virtuslab/ash/circe/CirceAkkaSerializer.scala) (the most important starting point / main abstraction)
- [CirceTraitCodec.scala](../circe-akka-serializer/src/main/scala/org/virtuslab/ash/circe/CirceTraitCodec.scala) (a trait that is extended by CirceAkkaSerializer and has some important `val`s that should be overridden in your code)
- [Register.scala](../circe-akka-serializer/src/main/scala/org/virtuslab/ash/circe/Register.scala) (helper object with `apply` method that needs to be used in order to register Codecs for serializable type)
- [Registration.scala](../circe-akka-serializer/src/main/scala/org/virtuslab/ash/circe/Registration.scala) (`Register.apply` method returns an instance of type Registration. Registration instances are later used as registered codecs)

> Scaladocs from these files and a quick lecture of [Akka serialization guide](https://doc.akka.io/docs/akka/current/serialization.html) should be enough to use Circe Akka Serializer properly. Apart from implementing the Circe Akka Serializer in scala code, remember to configure your Serializer in Akka-specific configuration file (.conf file). Two mandatory configurations are `akka.actor.serializers` and `akka.actor.serialization-bindings` (example below):

Reviewer: `lecture` doesn't seem to have the sense of _lektura_, i.e. _the process of reading_ in English.

```suggestion
Scaladocs from these files and a quick read of [Akka serialization guide](https://doc.akka.io/docs/akka/current/serialization.html) should be enough to use Circe Akka Serializer properly. Apart from implementing the Circe Akka Serializer in scala code, remember to configure your Serializer in Akka-specific configuration file (.conf file). Two mandatory configurations are `akka.actor.serializers` and `akka.actor.serialization-bindings` (example below):
```

> ```editorconfig

Reviewer: I'd just skip the syntax choice (as there's no support for HOCON); editorconfig might lead to weird coloring if that snippet is ever modified

Reviewer: (https://github.com/lightbend/config/issues/543)

akka {
  actor {
    serializers {
      circe-json = "org.example.ExampleSerializer"
    }
    serialization-bindings {
      "org.example.MySerializable" = circe-json
    }
  }
}
```
where `org.example.ExampleSerializer` is the FQCN of your Serializer which extends CirceAkkaSerializer and `org.example.MySerializable` is the FQCN of your top-level serializable type (trait / abstract class) that is extended by Messages / Events / States which `org.example.ExampleSerializer` should serialize.

Also, there are few optional configurations that you can set if you want to change the default behavior of Circe Akka Serializer:
- `org.virtuslab.ash.circe.verbose-debug-logging` = `on` / `off`

`on` enables debug logs for each serialization / deserialization -> prints info about what has been serialized/deserialized and how much time it took. Default is `off`.<br><br>

- `org.virtuslab.ash.circe.enable-missing-codecs-check` = `true` / `false`

> `true` enables additional check for possible missing codec registrations (more info about this problem in [README](../README.md)). This is in general checked by the [Codec Registration Checker Compiler Plugin](#codec-registration-checker-compiler-plugin-guide) during compilation, so the default is `false`. However, if you use only Circe Akka Serializer without compiler plugins - this check should be enabled. Be aware that enabling this check might have a slight negative impact on Serializer's performance.<br><br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`true` enables additional runtime check for possible missing codec registrations (more info about this problem in [README](../README.md)). This is in general checked by the [Codec Registration Checker Compiler Plugin](#codec-registration-checker-compiler-plugin-guide) during compilation, so the default is `false`. However, if you use only Circe Akka Serializer without compiler plugins - this check should be enabled. Be aware that enabling this check might have a slight negative impact on Serializer's performance.<br><br>
```

- `org.virtuslab.ash.circe.compression.algorithm` = `gzip` / `off`

> `gzip` enables compression of payloads before serialization using the [Gzip](https://www.gnu.org/software/gzip) algorithm. Default is `off` (compression disabled). Choosing `gzip` altogether with setting proper `compress-larger-than` value (explained below) enables compression of payloads.<br><br>

Reviewer: I'd rather link to the library that is used in ASH for that purpose, not to GNU gzip

Author: But the only thing related to Gzip we use in code is:
```
import java.util.zip.GZIPInputStream
import java.util.zip.GZIPOutputStream
```
So, there is no good way to provide a link for these two types from `java.util.zip` package. What do you think?

Reviewer: Maybe link to https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/java/util/zip/package-summary.html then?

Author: Hm, to be honest - that would not make sense to me as a reader. Let me jest remove the link then. People reading this guide would rather know about Gzip or just google for it.

Reviewer: +1, this is a well-known software/algorithm, no need for link

Rel, fun fact: https://virtuslab.github.io/tips/#other/compression-zip-vs-targz

- `org.virtuslab.ash.circe.compression.compress-larger-than` = `64 KiB` _(example value)_

> If `org.virtuslab.ash.circe.compression.algorithm` = `gzip` and `compress-larger-than` **value** is larger than `0 KiB` &mdash; each payload greater than the **value** will be compressed before serialization. Default **value** is `32 KiB`. If `org.virtuslab.ash.circe.compression.algorithm` = `off` &mdash; payloads will not be compressed, regardless of the chosen `compress-larger-than` value.<br><br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If `org.virtuslab.ash.circe.compression.algorithm` = `gzip` and `compress-larger-than` is larger than `0 KiB` &mdash; each payload greater than the this value will be compressed before serialization. Default value is `32 KiB`. If `org.virtuslab.ash.circe.compression.algorithm` = `off`, payloads will not be compressed, regardless of the chosen `compress-larger-than` value.<br><br>
```

> **Note** &mdash; Circe Akka Serializer will perform **deserialization** properly for both compressed and uncompressed payloads regardless of both `org.virtuslab.ash.circe.compression` configurations (Serializer will recognize whether the payload has been compressed). These settings matter only for choosing type of serialization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note** &mdash; Circe Akka Serializer will perform **deserialization** properly for both compressed and uncompressed payloads regardless of both `org.virtuslab.ash.circe.compression` configurations (deserializer will recognize whether the payload has been compressed). `org.virtuslab.ash.circe.compression.*` settings matter only for choosing type of **serialization**.
```

> **Note** &mdash; Circe Akka Serializer will perform **deserialization** properly for both compressed and not compressed payloads regardless of both `org.virtuslab.ash.circe.compression` configurations (Serializer will recognize whether the payload has been compressed programmatically). These settings matter only for choosing type of serialization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note** &mdash; Circe Akka Serializer will perform **deserialization** properly for both compressed and uncompressed payloads regardless of both `org.virtuslab.ash.circe.compression` configurations (Serializer will recognize whether the payload has been compressed). These settings matter only for choosing type of serialization.
```

I don't think the addition of _programmatically_ increase clarity here

### Annotations Guide

> ASH compiler plugins are based on usages of two annotations: [@SerializabilityTrait](#SerializabilityTrait) and [@Serializer](#Serializer). Thus, before enabling compiler plugins, make sure that you are using these two annotations properly in the project / module where plugins will do their work. In order to have access to these annotations, add this part of ASH to library dependencies:

Reviewer: As below... _before enabling compiler plugins_... but users will rarely need to enable the compiler plugins explicitly, right? they'll instead just rely on ASH sbt plugin to apply these plugins

Author: yeah, this part will be fixed in upcoming commit

```sbt
import org.virtuslab.ash.AkkaSerializationHelperPlugin
(...)

> libraryDependencies += AkkaSerializationHelperPlugin.annotation

Reviewer: Hmmm this is NOT needed if ASH sbt plugin has been enabled in the given module

Author: You're right - I will fix this part.

> ASH compiler plugins are based on usages of two annotations: [@SerializabilityTrait](#SerializabilityTrait) and [@Serializer](#Serializer). Thus, before running compilation with ASH compiler plugins, make sure that you are using these two annotations properly in the project / module where plugins will do their work. Annotations are available on the classpath for each project / module where ASH sbt plugin [is enabled](https://github.com/VirtusLab/akka-serialization-helper#install). If you want to use annotations in some other project / module (but do not need to enable whole ASH sbt plugin there), add this part of ASH to library dependencies:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ASH compiler plugins are driven by two annotations: [@SerializabilityTrait](#SerializabilityTrait) and [@Serializer](#Serializer). Thus, before running compilation with ASH compiler plugins, make sure that you are using these two annotations properly in the project / module where plugins will do their work. Annotations are available on the classpath for each project / module where ASH sbt plugin [is enabled](https://github.com/VirtusLab/akka-serialization-helper#install). If you want to use annotations in some other project/module without enabling ASH sbt plugin, add them directly to library dependencies:
```

> libraryDependencies += AkkaSerializationHelperPlugin.annotation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
val foo = project
// ...
.settings(libraryDependencies += AkkaSerializationHelperPlugin.annotation)
```

```
#### SerializabilityTrait

> [@SerializabilityTrait](../annotation/src/main/scala/org/virtuslab/ash/annotation/SerializabilityTrait.scala) is an annotation that should be added to your top-level serializable type (trait mentioned in the `akka.actor.serialization-bindings` part of akka config) that is extended by Messages / Events / States. Moreover, if your top-level serializable type is extended by another **trait** &mdash; this trait should also be annotated with this annotation. Concrete classes extending "serializability traits" (i.e. classes that define Messages/Events/States) should not be marked with this annotation. See examples in [README.md](../README.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[@SerializabilityTrait](../annotation/src/main/scala/org/virtuslab/ash/annotation/SerializabilityTrait.scala) is an annotation that should be added to your top-level serializable type (trait mentioned in the `akka.actor.serialization-bindings` part of Akka config) that is extended by Messages / Events / States. Moreover, if your top-level serializable type is extended by another **trait** &mdash; this trait should also be annotated with this annotation. Concrete classes extending "serializability traits" (i.e. classes that define Messages/Events/States) should not be marked with this annotation. See examples in [README.md](../README.md)
```

Reviewer: > Moreover, if your top-level serializable type is extended by another **trait** &mdash; this trait should also be annotated with this annotation

Hmm what case do you refer to here?

Reviewer: > See examples in [README.md](../README.md)

Pls provide link to the specific section

Author: > Hmm what case do you refer to here?

Example case (similar to what we have in Hydra now):
- the most top-level serializable trait (marker trait mentioned in the akka .conf file) is `trait TopSerializable`
- `TopSerializable` is extended by `trait SpecificSerializable`
- `SpecificSerializable` is extended by concrete classes (used as messages / events / states)
- `SpecificSerializable` is used in the `@Serializer` annotation
In such case both `TopSerializable` and `SpecificSerializable` should be marked with `@SerializabilityTrait`

But after writing this example I would say that I should add better explanation in this fragment of guide.

> [@SerializabilityTrait](../annotation/src/main/scala/org/virtuslab/ash/annotation/SerializabilityTrait.scala) is an annotation that should be added to your top-level serializable type (trait mentioned in the `akka.actor.serialization-bindings` part of Akka config). Moreover, if your top-level serializable type is extended by another **trait** (i.e. another, more specific marker trait that is later extended by concrete classes representing messages / events / states) &mdash; and this more specific trait is used as a type parameter in a `@Serializer` annotation - such trait should also be annotated with `@SerializabilityTrait` annotation. Concrete classes extending serializability traits (i.e. classes that define Messages/Events/States) should not be marked with this annotation. See examples in [README](https://github.com/VirtusLab/akka-serialization-helper#missing-serialization-binding)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[@SerializabilityTrait](../annotation/src/main/scala/org/virtuslab/ash/annotation/SerializabilityTrait.scala) is an annotation that should be added to your top-level serializable type (trait mentioned in the `akka.actor.serialization-bindings` part of Akka config). Moreover, if your top-level serializable type is extended by another **trait** (i.e. another, more specific marker trait that is later extended by concrete classes representing messages / events / states) &mdash; and this more specific trait is used as a type parameter in a `@Serializer` annotation, then such trait should also be annotated with `@SerializabilityTrait` annotation. Concrete classes extending serializability traits (i.e. classes that define Messages/Events/States) should **not** be marked with this annotation. See examples in [README](https://github.com/VirtusLab/akka-serialization-helper#missing-serialization-binding).
```

#### Serializer

> [@Serializer](../annotation/src/main/scala/org/virtuslab/ash/annotation/Serializer.scala) is an annotation used by the [Codec Registration Checker Compiler Plugin](#codec-registration-checker-compiler-plugin-guide) to check if there are any missing codec registrations. Add the `@Serializer` annotation to each serializer listed in the `akka.actor.serializers` part of the akka config. Moreover, to achieve full assurance that all codecs will be registered properly &mdash; add `@Serializer` annotation to each class/object/trait that contains code responsible for codec registration. See [Serializer Scaladoc](../annotation/src/main/scala/org/virtuslab/ash/annotation/Serializer.scala) for more details.

Reviewer: `Akka` uppercase everywhere (when refering to software name from the **prose**, ofc not in code/configs etc.)

### Serializability Checker Compiler Plugin
Before using this compiler plugin, make sure that you are using the [@SerializabilityTrait](../annotation/src/main/scala/org/virtuslab/ash/annotation/SerializabilityTrait.scala) annotation properly in code (instructions in previous [section](#SerializabilityTrait)). This plugin searches for all possible Akka Messages, Events and States and checks if their supertypes are properly marked with the `@SerializabilityTrait` annotation.<br><br>
Serializability Checker Compiler Plugin does not need additional configuration, but if you want to change its default behavior (or disable it) &mdash; you can add optional configurations as explained below:
- `--disable`

> The Plugin is enabled by default in each project / module where `AkkaSerializationHelperPlugin` is enabled. If you want to disable this particular plugin (but want to keep on using other ASH compiler plugins) &mdash; add following setting inside `build.sbt` for selected project / module:<br>

Reviewer: Nit: slashes aren't typically surrounded with spaces in English writing
```suggestion
The Plugin is enabled by default in each project/module where `AkkaSerializationHelperPlugin` is enabled. If you want to disable this particular plugin (but want to keep on using other ASH compiler plugins) &mdash; add following setting inside `build.sbt` for selected project / module:<br>
```

`Compile / scalacOptions += "-P:serializability-checker-plugin:--disable"`<br><br>
- `--verbose`

Verbose mode enables additional logs from the plugin. These logs contain detailed info about detected serializable types and annotated traits. This mode is disabled by default. If you want to enable `verbose` mode, add following setting:<br>
`Compile / scalacOptions += "-P:serializability-checker-plugin:--verbose"`<br><br>
- `--disable-detection-generics`

> This option disables detection of messages/events/states based on their usage as a type parameter of certain classes &mdash; e.g. `akka.actor.typed.Behavior` or `akka.persistence.typed.scaladsl.Effect`. It is disabled by default. If you want to use it, add following setting:<br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This option disables detection of messages/events/states based on their usage as a type parameter of certain classes &mdash; e.g. `akka.actor.typed.Behavior` or `akka.persistence.typed.scaladsl.Effect`. This detection is enabled by default. If you want to disable it, add the following setting:<br>
```

`Compile / scalacOptions += "-P:serializability-checker-plugin:--disable-detection-generics"`<br><br>
- `--disable-detection-generic-methods`

> This option disables detection of messages/events/state based on their usage as generic argument to a method, e.g. `akka.actor.typed.scaladsl.ActorContext.ask`. It is disabled by default. If you want to use it, add following setting:<br>

Reviewer: Ditto for the other flags

- `--disable-detection-methods`

This option disables detection of messages/events/state based on type of arguments to a method, e.g. `akka.actor.typed.ActorRef.tell`. It is disabled by default. If you want to use it, add following setting:<br>
`Compile / scalacOptions += "-P:serializability-checker-plugin:--disable-detection-methods"`<br><br>
- `--disable-detection-untyped-methods`

This option disables detection of messages/events/state based on type of arguments to a method that takes Any, used for Akka Classic. It is disabled by default. If you want to use it, add following setting:<br>
`Compile / scalacOptions += "-P:serializability-checker-plugin:--disable-detection-untyped-methods"`<br><br>
- `--disable-detection-higher-order-function`

This option disables detection of messages/events/state based on return type of the function given as argument to method. It is disabled by default. If you want to use it, add following setting:<br>
`Compile / scalacOptions += "-P:serializability-checker-plugin:--disable-detection-higher-order-function"`<br><br>

### Codec Registration Checker Compiler Plugin

> Before using this compiler plugin, make sure that you are using both [annotations](#annotations) properly. If yes &mdash; plugin can be used right away. This plugin checks whether classes marked with serializability trait are being referenced in a marked serializer, which ensures that codecs will be registered in runtime.<br><br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before using this compiler plugin, make sure that you are using both [annotations](#annotations) properly. If so &mdash; the plugin can be used right away. This plugin checks whether classes marked with serializability trait are being referenced in a marked serializer, which ensures that codecs will be registered in runtime.<br><br>
```

Codec Registration Checker Compiler Plugin does not need additional configuration, but you can change default configurations as explained below:
- `--disable`

The Plugin is enabled by default in each project / module where `AkkaSerializationHelperPlugin` is enabled. If you want to disable this particular plugin (but want to keep on using other ASH compiler plugins) &mdash; add following setting inside `build.sbt` for selected project / module:<br>
`Compile / scalacOptions += "-P:codec-registration-checker-plugin:--disable"`<br><br>
- `custom cache file path`

> This plugin uses a helper cache file named `codec-registration-checker-cache.csv`. The file is created under `target/` directory by default, so that it will not bother users. This file is useful if user performs incremental compilation. If you want, you can specify your custom path instead of the default one. To do so, add following configuration to the plugin:<br>

Reviewer: Pls verify if it's really `target/` of top-level project (and not of each individual project separately)... that's what I remember

```suggestion
This plugin uses a helper cache file named `codec-registration-checker-cache.csv`. The file is created under `target/` directory of top-level project by default. This file is useful if user performs incremental compilation. If you want, you can specify your custom path instead of the default one. To do so, add following configuration to the plugin:<br>
```

Author: Yes, that is right. `target/` of the top level project (not specific module). I will apply your suggestion.

> `Compile / scalacOptions += "-P:codec-registration-checker-plugin:PATH_TO_CUSTOM_DIRECTORY"`<br><br>

Reviewer: Okay... so finally we pass the directory as a loose argument and NOT as a named flag right?

Author: Yes, this has not been changed in deed. IMO we should switch to named flag. Issue for this change created: https://github.com/VirtusLab/akka-serialization-helper/issues/210

Author: Moreover - the same applies to the dump persistence schema compiler plugin. Also mentioned in #210 + I added similar description to this plugin in the guide (I must have missed it earlier)

> `Compile / scalacOptions += "-P:codec-registration-checker-plugin:PATH_TO_CUSTOM_DIRECTORY"`<br><br>

Reviewer: Okay... so finally we pass the directory as a loose argument and NOT as a named flag right?

Author: Yes, this has not been changed in deed. IMO we should switch to named flag. Issue for this change created: https://github.com/VirtusLab/akka-serialization-helper/issues/210

### Dump Persistence Schema Compiler Plugin
Dump Persistence Schema Compiler Plugin does not need additional configuration, but you can change default configurations as explained below:
- `--disable`

> The Plugin is enabled by default in each project / module where `AkkaSerializationHelperPlugin` is enabled. If you want to disable this particular plugin (but want to keep on using other ASH compiler plugins) &mdash; add following setting inside `build.sbt` for selected project / module:<br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Plugin is enabled by default in each project/module where `AkkaSerializationHelperPlugin` is enabled. If you want to disable this particular plugin (but want to keep on using other ASH compiler plugins) &mdash; add the following setting inside `build.sbt` for the selected project / module:<br>
```

`Compile / scalacOptions += "-P:dump-persistence-schema-plugin:--disable"`<br><br>
- `--verbose`

Verbose mode enables additional logs from the plugin. These logs contain detailed info about detected persistence schema. This mode is disabled by default. If you want to enable `verbose` mode, add following setting:<br>
`Compile / scalacOptions += "-P:dump-persistence-schema-plugin:--verbose"`<br><br>

Dump Persistence Schema Compiler Plugin prepares data for the `ashDumpPersistenceSchema` sbt task, which creates the final output for user.<br>

> ### ashDumpPersistenceSchema sbt task

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `ashDumpPersistenceSchema` sbt task
```

> The `ashDumpPersistenceSchema` sbt task dumps schema of akka-persistence to a yaml file. This is the only part of ASH that has to be invoked manually (with `sbt ashDumpPersistenceSchema` command). If you want to use this task, Dump Persistence Schema Compiler Plugin must **not** be disabled. Default output file for this task is `s"${name.value}-dump-persistence-schema-${version.value}.yaml"` (`name.value` and `version.value` are resolved by sbt on your project). If you want to have a custom name for this file, add following setting:<br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `ashDumpPersistenceSchema` sbt task dumps schema of akka-persistence to a yaml file. This is the only part of ASH that has to be invoked explicitly as an sbt task (`sbt ashDumpPersistenceSchema`). If you want to use this task, Dump Persistence Schema Compiler Plugin must **not** be disabled. Default output file for this task is `s"${name.value}-dump-persistence-schema-${version.value}.yaml"` (`name.value` and `version.value` are resolved by sbt on your project). If you want to have a custom name for this file, add following setting:<br>
```

Reviewer: Also, pls specify where this file will be located by default (top-level target/? per-module target/?)

Reviewer: Also, maybe mention `ashDumpPersistenceSchemaOutputDirectoryPath`?

`ashDumpPersistenceSchema / ashDumpPersistenceSchemaOutputFilename := "CUSTOM_FILE_NAME"`<br>

> Remember that `CUSTOM_FILE_NAME` must have a proper extension (.yml or .yaml).<br><br>

Reviewer: Well... this is a rather weak requirement, I'd remove that line

Reviewer: It's only required for the user software to interpret it correctly... if it relies on `.yml` extension in the first place (e.g. most command-line tools **don't** care about file extensions)

- Use Circe Akka Serializer but without enabling Compiler Plugins
- Use Compiler Plugins but not Circe Akka Serializer (if you need to stick to your current Serializer)

To use ASH (whole or a selected part), you need to first add Akka Serialization Helper in the `project/plugins.sbt` file and enable it in `build.sbt` &mdash; this is the standard way of using the toolbox. Just follow short instructions from [install part of README](https://github.com/VirtusLab/akka-serialization-helper#install).
To use ASH (whole or a selected part), you need to first add Akka Serialization Helper in the `project/plugins.sbt` file and enable it in `build.sbt` &mdash; this is the standard way of using the toolbox. Just follow the [installation instructions from README](https://github.com/VirtusLab/akka-serialization-helper#install).

Alternatively &mdash; if you want to use only Circe Akka Serializer (without enabling compiler plugins) &mdash; you can add it as a standard library dependency (find new available versions under [releases](https://github.com/VirtusLab/akka-serialization-helper/releases)):

> ```sbt

Reviewer: `sbt` syntax seems to be supported by GitHub, it can stay
